Add updating Jenkins section in User's Handbook (#5888)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/doc/book/updating/windows.adoc

---
layout: section
title: Windows
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:description:
:author:
:email: jenkinsci-docs@googlegroups.com
:sectanchors:
:toc: left
:toclevels: 3
:hide-uri-scheme:
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
ifndef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../../resources]
endif::[]

include::doc/book/updating/_pre-upgrade-wizard.adoc[]

== Upgrade steps on Windows

> There are two ways to upgrade Jenkins in Windows.
> One is via Windows MSI installer 
> Other one is by Replacing the 
> link:https://jenkins.io/doc/book/updating/windows/#replacing-the-war-file[WAR File].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two ways to upgrade Jenkins in Windows:
* Windows MSI installer 
or
* Replacing the  link:https://jenkins.io/doc/book/updating/windows/#replacing-the-war-file[WAR File].
```

For more information refer to the link:https://www.jenkins.io/doc/book/installing/windows/#windows-msi-installers[Installing Jenkins On Windows via MSI Installer] page.

=== Replacing the WAR File
[unordered.stack]
1) Stop the running Jenkins service ::

To stop Jenkins use the following command to stop server

`http://[jenkins-server]/exit`

Example: if my local PC is running Jenkins at port 8080, it will be

`http://localhost:8080/exit`

2) Go to the location where your Jenkins instance is installed ::
	
By default, Jenkins is installed here: 
`C:\Program Files\Jenkins`

3) Rename the war folder to war.old ::
This is important if the upgrade process fails 
you won't lose the backup of your Jenkins instance

4) Rename jenkins.war file to jenkins.war.old ::
IMPORTANT: Don't Replace and Don't Delete the old war file.

5) Copy the new jenkins.war you downloaded into your Jenkins installation directory ::
This is the upgraded jenkins.war which will update your Jenkins Instance

Start Jenkins ::

To start the service, you need to open the terminal in the directory where your Java WAR File is present and run the following command:
[source]
```
java -jar jenkins.war
```

> Observe the creation of a new war directory which will now contain the contents of the new jenkins.war archive. By doing so, you can avoid losing your setup and builds that happen when a WAR file is replaced.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Observe the creation of a new war directory which will now contain the contents of the new jenkins.war archive.
By doing so, you can avoid losing your setup and builds that happen when a WAR file is replaced.
```
one sentence per line suggestion

---
layout: section
title: Windows
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:description:
:author:
:email: jenkinsci-docs@googlegroups.com
:sectanchors:
:toc:left
:toclevels: 4
:hide-uri-scheme:
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
ifndef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../../resources]
endif::[]

include::doc/book/updating/_pre-upgrade-wizard.adoc[]

== Upgrade steps on Windows

There are two ways to upgrade Jenkins in Windows.
One is via Windows MSI installer

> Other one is discussed later on the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Other one is discussed later on the page.
```
Instead of saying one is discussed later, say what the name of it is here and link to it. This information does not help the user how it is written.

== Upgrading via MSI Installer

> you can download the latest LTS or Weekly MSI Installer to upgrade Jenkins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can download the latest LTS or Weekly MSI Installer to upgrade Jenkins.
```

> Just Download the Jenkins 
> link:https://www.jenkins.io/download/#downloading-jenkins[MSI Installer] from here and install the latest
> Jenkins LTS or Weekly.
> for more information visit this page.
> link:https://www.jenkins.io/doc/book/installing/windows/#windows-msi-installers[Installing Jenkins On Windows via MSI Installer]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Just Download the Jenkins link:https://www.jenkins.io/download/#downloading-jenkins[MSI Installer] from here and install the latest Jenkins LTS or Weekly.
For more information refer to the link:https://www.jenkins.io/doc/book/installing/windows/#windows-msi-installers[Installing Jenkins On Windows via MSI Installer] page.
```
suggestion for formatting

> === 1. Stop the running Jenkins service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Stop the running Jenkins service
```
remove the numbered section headers

> To stop Jenkins Please avoid shutting down the Java process or the Windows service. These are not usual commands. Use those only if your Jenkins is causing problems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To stop Jenkins please avoid shutting down the Java process or the Windows service. These are not usual commands.
Use those only if your Jenkins is causing problems.
```
This section does not seem very clear, please add additional context/text to help clarify the statement

> use the following command to stop server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following command to stop the server:
```

`http://[jenkins-server]/exit`

> Example: if my local PC is running Jenkins at port 8080, it will be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if my local PC is running Jenkins at port 8080, it will be
```
small wording suggestion

`http://localhost:8080/exit`

> === 2. Go to the location where your Jenkins instance is installed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Go to the location where your Jenkins instance is installed
```

> By Default Jenkins is installed here: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, Jenkins is installed here: 
```

`C:\Program Files\Jenkins`

> === 3. Rename the war folder to war.old
> This is important if the upgrade process fails 
> you won't lose the backup of your Jenkins instance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Rename the war folder to war.old

This is important if the upgrade process fails, as you won't lose the backup of your Jenkins instance
```
small suggestion for readability

> === 4. Rename jenkins.war file to jenkins.war.old
> This is important for backup so *Don't Replace and Don't Delete* the old war file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Rename jenkins.war file to jenkins.war.old

This is important for the backup, so do not replace or delete the old war file.
```
small update, just to make it read smoother

=== 5. Copy the new jenkins.war you downloaded into your Jenkins installation directory
This is the upgraded jenkins.war which will update your Jenkins Instance

> === 6. Start Jenkins service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Start Jenkins
```

> To start the service you need to open the terminal in the directory where your Java WAR File is present and run the following command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start the service, you need to open the terminal in the directory where your Java WAR File is present and run the following command:
```
punctuation suggestion

[source]
```
java -jar jenkins.war
```

> === 7. Observe the creation of a new war directory which will now contain the contents of the new jenkins.war archive
> 
> By doing so, you can avoid losing your setup and builds that happen when a WAR file is replaced.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Observe the creation of a new war directory which will now contain the contents of the new jenkins.war archive

By doing so, you can avoid losing your setup and builds that happen when a WAR file is replaced.
```
Is this its own step or could it be added to the previous step as a result, or just a separate result that is not part of the steps?

---
layout: section
title: Windows
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:description:
:author:
:email: jenkinsci-docs@googlegroups.com
:sectanchors:
:toc: left
:toclevels: 3
:hide-uri-scheme:
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
ifndef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../../resources]
endif::[]

include::doc/book/updating/_pre-upgrade-wizard.adoc[]

== Upgrade steps on Windows

> There are two ways to upgrade Jenkins in Windows:

Reviewer 2: Needs instructions to guide the user to upgrade with the same technique they used for installation.  If they installed with MSI, they should upgrade with MSI.  If they installed by copying the war file, they should upgrade by replacing the war file.

Author: Thanks for the suggestions @MarkEWaite I'll add the instructions

---
layout: section
title: Windows
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:description:
:author:
:email: jenkinsci-docs@googlegroups.com
:sectanchors:
:toc:left
:toclevels: 4
:hide-uri-scheme:
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
ifndef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../../resources]
endif::[]

include::doc/book/updating/_pre-upgrade-wizard.adoc[]

== Upgrade steps on Windows

There are two ways to upgrade Jenkins in Windows.
One is via Windows MSI installer
Other one is discussed later on the page.

== Upgrading via MSI Installer
you can download the latest LTS or Weekly MSI Installer to upgrade Jenkins.

Just Download the Jenkins 
link:https://www.jenkins.io/download/#downloading-jenkins[MSI Installer] from here and install the latest
Jenkins LTS or Weekly.
for more information visit this page.
link:https://www.jenkins.io/doc/book/installing/windows/#windows-msi-installers[Installing Jenkins On Windows via MSI Installer]

=== 1. Stop the running Jenkins service

To stop Jenkins Please avoid shutting down the Java process or the Windows service. These are not usual commands. Use those only if your Jenkins is causing problems.

use the following command to stop server

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

`http://[jenkins-server]/exit`

Example: if my local PC is running Jenkins at port 8080, it will be

`http://localhost:8080/exit`

=== 2. Go to the location where your Jenkins instance is installed
	
By Default Jenkins is installed here: 

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

`C:\Program Files\Jenkins`

=== 3. Rename the war folder to war.old
This is important if the upgrade process fails 
you won't lose the backup of your Jenkins instance

=== 4. Rename jenkins.war file to jenkins.war.old
This is important for backup so *Don't Replace and Don't Delete* the old war file.

=== 5. Copy the new jenkins.war you downloaded into your Jenkins installation directory
This is the upgraded jenkins.war which will update your Jenkins Instance

> === 6.Start Jenkins service

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
=== 6. Start Jenkins service
```

To start the service you need to open the terminal in the directory where your Java WAR File is present and run the following command

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
